
layout: post
Title: "(The Menorah (“candelabrum”) in Judaism)"
The Menorah is considered to a very powerful and significant spiritual object within the Jewish Religion. 
It is often used in many religious ceremonies, and it has been a commonly used as a candle lit symbolic object since ancient times throughout history. 
It can be average or larger in size depending on the purpose of where it’s being constructed for intended prayers or celebratory reasons.
The Temple Menorah first appeared with seven different branches (after the structure of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem), but in modern times it is normally portrayed as appearing with eight different branches showing the “Chanukah Menorah” and is used regularly during the Jewish holiday of Hanukkah representing the eight-day celebration. 
The Menorah can be found dating all the way back to the old Hebrew bible or Torah within the book of Exodus where Moses was given the lamp by God as a revelation. The cup on top of the object signifies the holy Sabbath and the cups which appear in a similar “shape of flower blossoms” are believed to represent the tree of life. 
It even paved way for the creation of the Star of David within the early Modern period (1800s). 
The Menorah is a material spiritual object that is very important for many key reasons, because of its branches symbolizing the importance of the Sabbath and the “seven days of creation” it is lit regularly for evening and night prayer rituals on the Sabbath or Shabbat which takes place on Friday later in the afternoon and Saturday evenings towards the end of this day of rest. 
Besides it being used every weekend by Jewish families and on Hannukah celebrations it is also found on many synagogues and Jewish buildings to build give the public a physical and meaningful representation of what it means to be part of a Jewish community with similar shared values and spiritual gifts.
According to the Jewish tradition as it is written in the Talmud it is thought to be “forbidden” to light a Temple Menorah within a Jewish home as it is only custom to use the Chanukah Menorahs within the home. 
The Menorah’s symbolism and spiritual significance are especially relevant to our topics we discussed consistently about women’s spiritual and physical roles within religion because within Judaism women who are mothers are often the core foundation of a Jewish household and often lead their children with Shabbos prayers (by being a spiritual authority) and by involving themselves within this ritual as an example of what it means to contribute to this unique role as faithful person adding to the power of this sacred spiritual object. 
